We now need to create some controllers.
These controllers will handle our API endpoints,
and they're going to be REST based.
Again, we have a package that we've defined for these called controllers,
so I'm going to jump over there and create a new
class in the controllers package.
Right-click and say New, Java Class.
I'll again start with the Sessions section,
so I'll create a controller called SessionsController,
leave it as a class type, and hit Enter.
The next thing we need to do is add some annotations so that
Spring MVC knows that these are controllers.
So I'm going to add that at the class level.
Import the classes for the annotation.
So quickly,
what these mean is the @RestController means that this will respond to
payloads incoming and outgoing as JSON REST endpoints.
The @RequestMapping tells the router what the mapping URL will look like.
So in this case, I'm specifying the route path is /api/v1/sessions.
All requests to that URL will be sent to this controller.
The next thing I'm going to do is use Spring to inject or auto wire
the sessions repository that we just created.
Go ahead and import the missing classes, and that's what this will look like.
So Spring will auto wire this when our SessionsController is built.
It will create an instance of the session repository and put it onto our class.
Next, I'm going to create a list endpoint.
This will return all of the sessions when called,
so I need to create a method that looks like this.
Go ahead and import the missing files.
Another thing to note really quick about REST
controllers in Spring MVC is the return types.
By default,
the REST controller will return 200s as the response status for all the calls.
Even though we added the @PostMapping annotation to this endpoint,
it's not going to infer anything from that.
Because typically, when you create something or you post something,
you get a 201 back, but the Spring REST controllers just will return a 200.
So one way that you can override those would be to add the
following annotation to your endpoint.
By including the @ResponseStatus annotation,
you can specify the exact response that you want to occur
when the method executes and finishes.
So in this case, I've given it an HttpStatus of CREATED,
which maps to 201 in the HTTP world.
Since this isn't in-depth REST course,
I'm going to go ahead and just remove the ResponseStatus,
and I'm going to leave the 200 responses for all of our endpoints,
even though that's not typically what you would do in real life,
but that it could be something that you could go back in and add yourself by
thinking about what is the appropriate response for GETs,
CREATEs, PUTs, DELETEs, and so on,
and put the ResponseStatus mapping in correctly.
A couple of things about this method.
I haven't given it a specific RequestMapping.
That means if you were to make a call to api/v1/sessions,
it's going to route to this method.
The annotation GetMapping tells which HTTP verb to use,
which will be a get verb to call this endpoint.
Next, I've used sessionRepository, and I'm calling the findAll on it.
This is how powerful the JPA repositories are.
It built this method for us,
and it's going to go out and query all of the sessions in the
database and return them as a list of Session objects.
You'll notice that our data type is returning that list of sessions,
and Spring MVC will then pass that over to Jackson,
which is a serialization library,
which will turn those sessions into JSON and return them back to the caller.
The next REST endpoint I want to add is the ability
to get a specific session by ID.
So I'm going to add this method, I'm going to import the classes,
and let's talk about what this does really quick.
Again,
the @GetMapping is like the other method in that we're using
the HTTP verb GET when we call this method.
The @RequestMapping is in addition to the class RequestMapping.
So in this case, our class RequestMapping is api/V1/sessions,
and the RequestMapping on this is adding an additional id to the URL.
This id is specifying a specific session, and we want to return that.
The parameter on the GET is pulling that off of the URL and
injecting it into our method automatically.
Again, this is handled for us by Spring MVC.
We're using a PathVariable.
And since we have Long data types for our primary key,
we're going to marshal it into a Long type and set
the id on the incoming parameter.
At this point, we can then use the Session repository,
and again, it's auto built this method called getOne where you can pass in an id,
and it returns and queries the session for that id back to the caller.
Once we get it back, we just return that.
And in our controller, we're auto marshaling the session,
which will return the specific session back to the caller in JSON payload.
For the two read portions of a CRUD, or create,
read, update, delete REST endpoint,
these two fill the listing and the specific id.
We'll go ahead and pause there.
And if you've already guessed what's going to happened next,
you get to build out the speakers controller.
So go ahead and pause the video and get the speaker list and a specific speaker
controller endpoint to return a speaker back to you going.
Then go ahead and fire the video back up and compare to what I've built myself.
Okay, here's what I have for the speakers controller.
I added it again to the controllers package.
I then called the controller SpeakersController.
I changed the RequestMapping to take routes that
are coming for /api/v1/speakers.
I auto wired in my SpeakerRepository,
which gives me CRUD access and other access to my
Speakers database table and data.
I then created a List method, which returns all speakers if you call it.
That is using the GET HTTP verb.
And I created a GET method, which returns a specific speaker,
and again, we're looking for a speaker with a particular id,
which we'll pass in from the URL to our parameter,
PathVariable Long id, which we can then pass to the SpeakerRepository,
and that will return our Speaker, which will return to have JSON marshaled.
That's it for this portion of the controller as part of the course.
Coming up next, we'll build out the update, delete, and insert functionality for our CRUD REST endpoints.